# community-pantry-movement-means-for-Filipinos
What the community pantry movement means for Filipinos Written by Juli Suazo  Updated Apr 19, 2021 5:57:09 PM  128  Ana Patricia Non, the woman behind the Maginhawa Community Pantry. Photo courtesy of ANJO LAPRESCA On a hot and scorching Wednesday afternoon, Ana Patricia Non walked along the streets of Maginhawa to find a spot that is both accessible and able to withhold sizable foot traffic. Somewhere in front of a Romantic Baboy and Ministop, she approached the owners of the place where she used to buy vegetables and requested permission to use the space for a community pantry. When it was granted, she rushed home to collect her already-packed goods, called for a tricycle, and quickly made her way back. She set up a bamboo cart along Maginhawa Street and stocked it with rice, vegetables, milk, vitamins, face masks, canned goods, soap and other essentials.   How the Maginhawa Community Pantry looked like during its early days. Photo courtesy of ANA PATRICIA NON Not long after, she marked the first day of the Maginhawa Community Pantry through a public Facebook post. From 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., this community pantry is stationed in front of a convenience store where it is accessible to residents located in Krus na Ligas, UP Village, San Vicente, Teacher’s Village, Sikatuna, and Bliss who are free to take as much supplies as they need or share with others whatever they could. A few hours later, she received cash donations from her friends and family which she used to purchase bundles of vegetables that replenished her cart.  Ana Patricia Non owns and runs a small furniture refurbishing business that employed workers severely affected by the pandemic — construction workers turned woodworkers and jeepney drivers turned delivery men. When two months passed with no income, she found herself struggling to make ends meet. Frustrated with the situation she had no control over, she recalled the frequent advice of her sister: “Ang importante ngayon ay mabuhay, mag-survive, at magpalakas. Kung may sakit, magpagaling.”  Non always thought of the people left most vulnerable by the pandemic — those who don’t have the option to stay at home and stay safe and whose meals depend on the income they earn on the same day, if any at all.
